app-polishing/readme.md, before:

# App Polishing

## Introduction

Thus far in this course, the priority has been building apps with functionality. However, as you get closer to the end of the course, you will be building applications that could be shown to a potential employer.

An app that is well-designed and has been polished will stand out much more than an app that only has the core functionality with little to no thought about how the user(s) experience the app.

Each app will have its own unique challenges and incorporating the tools and assets you need will require some research on your part. Being able to teach yourself new things is an integral skill as a developer.

## Learning Objectives

Get an overview of some well-known resources for:

- Fonts
- Color pickers
- Icons
- Images
- CSS Animations

## Take inventory

Take a moment to think about how you

- Choose fonts for your applications
- Choose color themes for your applications
- Choose images for your applications
- What other resources have you used to help make your application stand out?

Commit message:

add more details to app polishing

app-polishing/readme.md, after:

# App Polishing

## Introduction

Thus far in this course, the priority has been building apps with functionality. However, as you get closer to the end of the course, you will be building applications that could be shown to a potential employer.

An app that is well-designed and has been polished will stand out much more than an app that only has the core functionality with little to no thought about how the user(s) experience the app.

Each app will have its own unique challenges and incorporating the tools and assets you need will require some research on your part. Being able to teach yourself new things is an integral skill as a developer.

How do you find free tools like photos, fonts, icons and more?

Why do people create free tools (like sharable icons and images)? Are there any downsides?

## Learning Objectives

- Know about some common resources for free web applications assets
- Look up tools on your own
- Apply those tools to improve look and feel of a web app

In this lesson you will get an overview of some well-known resources for:

- Fonts
- Color pickers
- Icons
- Images
- CSS Animations

## Take inventory

Take a moment to think about how you

- Choose fonts for your applications
- Choose color themes for your applications
- Choose images for your applications
- What other resources have you used to help make your application stand out?
